All right.
So now what we're going to do is initialize a git repository and push it to GitHub.
So I have my news grid website right here.
So if I open it up and I open up the index HTML we have the website that we built in the was yeah,
the last section.
And what we need to do is open this folder up inside of a terminal or a command line, which is basically
the same thing.
Now, if you're on Windows and you downloaded Git, which you should have, you should be able to right
click and say open with a git bash or if you want, you can say open with I think it says open with
command line.
If not, then just go down to the windows icon and just type in inside the run text box, type in CMD
and you'll get your command line open.
Now if you're on a mac, you'll use your terminal.
If you can't find where it is, just go to the search up in the top right and type in terminal and hit
enter and your terminal should open like that.
Now you're going to have to be in the news grid site if you right click and you say open with get bash
you'll you'll already be in there.
But for me in my home directory now my project is on my desktop if I do an RLS command and by the way,
I do have a command line crash course on YouTube as well.
But if I do an LZ, it shows me all the folders that are in here and you can see that desktop is is
in here.
So I'm going to seed, which means change directory into desktop.
Now if I do another LZ, it shows me everything that's on my desktop.
I want to seed into my news grid website or folder and if I do an LZ, you can see all the files that
we've that we created now to initialize a git repository locally.
And you should first actually check to see if you have git.
So do get dash dash version and it should show you a version.
And I'm going to clear this up.
We can clear this up with control.
L Or it might be yeah, command.
L Control.
And then we're going to do get init.
So this will initialize a git repository.
What it does is it creates a hidden folder called Dot Git.
If I do an LZ, we don't see it.
However, if I do LZ and I add the dash a flag, that means that it's going to show everything, even
hidden, hidden files and folders.
And now you can see that there is actually a dot git folder here.
All right.
Now, we need to we need to add our files to our git repository.
So I'm going to go ahead and say get add.
And instead of doing writing out every file, we can simply put a dot that means get add all.
So I'm going to run that and it's going to add it to what's called a staging area.
All right.
And if we want to see what's in that staging area, we can say get status and you'll see all of our
files, our images, everything.
So they're in the staging area and now I want to commit them to our local repository.
So to do that, we say get commit and we're going to put a dash flag here.
And then inside of quotes, just put a comment as to to what what we did.
What is this commit about?
So we're going to say initial commit since this is our first one.
So once we do that, all of those files get committed to our local repository.
Now what we want to do is take that local repository and push it to GitHub dotcom.
So let's head over to GitHub.
Now, once you sign up and you log in, you'll see something like this and you just want to go up to
the plus sign and say new repository.
All right.
And then right here, you want to put your repository name.
So I'm going to say News Grid and you can put a description if you want.
We'll just say, I don't know, I'm just going to say sample website.
Now here you can choose public or private.
And private repositories were premium for a long, long time, but I believe that they just made them
free.
Microsoft actually acquired GitHub and I believe they made private repositories free.
And what that means is that if they're private, other people can't see them unless you invite them.
If it's public, other people will be able to see all your code.
So, you know, this is a place for public repositories, for open source code.
I'm going to choose private.
You guys can choose public if you want.
I just choose private because I have quite a few followers and this is a repository that I'm not going
to keep, so I don't want people to see it and and stuff like that.
So I'm just going to choose private and then I'm going to say Create repository.
All right.
Now, this pretty much gives us instructions on how to push to GitHub.
But there's a couple of things that we don't need, like we don't need a read me file, but we already
did this get init.
We already added all our all of our files.
Like I said, we don't need a read me so we're not going to do that.
And then we did our commit, we did get commit m initial commit.
Now we need to add this as our remote repository.
Now if we use this right here, if we use SSH, which is what's being used, you'll need to create what
are called SSH keys, which make it so that you don't have to log in every time you push to GitHub,
which is something you probably want to look into.
But I'm not going to do that here.
I'm actually going to choose HTTPS, so I'm going to click this right here and then I'm going to grab
this command.
So I'm going to control C, I'm going to copy it, copy it, and then I'm going to paste it in here
and run it.
And then we want to grab this get push dash u origin master.
So basically we're just saying we want to push to the master branch because in get you can have different
branches and that's something that you'll learn about later.
But we're going to go ahead and copy that command and put that in here.
And it's going to push to GitHub.
So now if I go back and I reload, you can see all of our files, all of our HTML files, our icon,
this RDS store I probably shouldn't have pushed, but I didn't want to get into the whole get ignore
file and all that.
I want to keep this very basic.
So I mean, it's not going to hurt anything to have this file.
And if you're on windows, you won't have this.
This is a mac thing.
Then we have our CSS.
We can even look at our code in GitHub, but our news grid website is now our repository is now on GitHub.
So in the next video, what I want to do is go to net WiFi and deploy it.
Basically take this this repository and deploy it to nullify so that we can actually view it in a browser.
It'll give us very strange domain name at first and then we'll add our own custom domain.